[Music]
hello everyone I'm here on the golden
Guardians moving day talking to the
coach of golden Guardians locodoco
himself logo doko it's been a bit since
you've been in the LCS but here you are
returning with a new team so first off
how did this happen how did you end up
working with golden Guardians so I
interviewed with a lot of teams for head
coach position I actually think I could
have been head coach for a lot of teams
but when warriors came by they were my
by fire number one choice so I I just
jumped right on the train and I all end
on it why were they your number one
choice so Warriors as a brand outside of
League of Legends I mean you know they
just started fifth thing in League of
Legends the NBA team is on there the
best and they're not money kind of best
they're the best in a way like they're
very smart and they're very methodical
and everything they do is carefully
planned out and structured so they're
not first by chance but by a lot of
well-thought-out
organized plans strong values just
anything it's a very it's just a very
very well-run organization so I always
looked up to them even though personally
I'm a Laker fan they're like more
they're more flashy but worried if it's
just more buttoned up and more
professional so it's a team I always
looked up to and when I started
interviewing with them and I realize how
involved Kirk was gonna be and how much
of their values and how watch they want
to incorporate that into the league of
Legends team I thought wow this is a
place where I could learn so much from
and I could grow so much under and for
some of the other teams I didn't feel
that way but for this team I feel like
um I learned so much working on their
people that are extremely smart and
extremely successful yeah and as the
roster has started to kind of leak out
there and people have started to
speculate on it I do think that we have
seen some skepticism and some doubt this
is the only team that doesn't have an
imported player on it and certainly
there are some players here that people
feel have underperformed in the past I
don't know how much of a hand you had in
building the roster
but maybe first half when you talk a
little bit about your involvement in
building it and also what you think of
the final product here we had a very
very strong belief in terms of growing
young and a talent and investing into
them when you think teams like c9 GSM or
even the old immortal roster why they're
so strong it because of their imports
but it's because of the very strong core
and a player so bjergsen which is like a
sheet but he is a core na player for TSM
hauntzer double lift for c9 sneaky
smoothy all these core and a players are
what brings those or on to the top level
like pobelter Exmouth d and yeah they're
not um up for purchase I'm double lift
and pobelter work but their price is
astronomical and so if you don't have
access to them then we have to find the
next great and a talent right
and once that are obvious I'm dead
scooped up very fast so we wanted to
find like players that we thought had
the right kind of mindset right kind of
mentality we're very eager to learn and
would be great players in the future so
let's like before example let's think
like a basketball player right
it takes what 14 15 years from like
holding a basketball when you're like
what three or four and then being
trained for 14 years to become drafted
and play an MBA right for most of League
of Legends pros it takes about a year or
two years from touching keyboard and
mouse to becoming a professional player
so if you can train players the right
way and we can grow them and have a
culture and have a system and have a
mythology and we can very easily catch
up to teams like the 90s em on in the
future so that's what we were really
looking at players with the right
mindset right kind of mentality and of
course right kind of talent we can't
take you for example
even if I know you have the great I know
you have a great mindset but I don't
think I could make you into an LCS
player but especially because I've got a
great position at Travis can for eSports
right now I'm not looking for anything
but I appreciate that we tried
but okay then so you've got the obvious
guys there that kind of fit within that
philosophy and then you've got hi who's
been around for a long time I
I assumed when I saw that that it was
kind of like plugging him and it's like
a mentor but maybe you can talk a little
bit more specifically about his role on
the team sure
so knit is a position you can't
compromise on it's just control so much
of the game and it's a extremely
difficult position to play also you're
required to play a lot of different
kinds so champion not just a lot of
champions different kinds of champions
like mages assassins sometimes even
tanks on sometimes very Rome heavy
sometimes very teamfight heavy and you
could get ganked from both angles you
have to control vision from both angles
you have a lot of decision-making
there's so much permutation in terms of
what can happen in mid
so it's a very mechanically intense role
that's also very experienced heavy and
you also shall call a lot as a mid laner
so it was a role that one role that I
told on hunter and Kirk that we can't
compromise on having a rookie on but we
also wanted a veteran and we also in a
way kind of wanted to na player because
we once rosters were getting picked up
we realized on we will probably do no
import or one import at mid and high
actually checks all those boxes he's
very experienced a great shot caller and
whichever import or whichever veteran we
picked up we knew was gonna be a role
model not just for in-game not just for
practice but how they carry themselves
and what kind of person they are and hi
someone that's been a very hardworking
player that's been very responsible
player that's been a very good leader of
very good mentors so um he was and we
during the roster process we said a lot
of we're looking for a high like player
oh we never actually thought we'd end up
with high but that was like our mid that
was our veteran description a player
like hi that's pretty good pretty good
so other than that you know it is a
move-in day are you gonna be living in
the house so
in the past I haven't been the most
professional person and when I was
younger I thought to myself like I don't
want to be that professional like I just
want to be a great strategic coach but
as I gotten older and as coaching is
something I've invested more of my
livelihood and my time into it's
something I want to be the best at and
it's something I really want to do a
great job at and I've been trying to
keep a more professional image I've been
trying to be more professional in my
life also and I think a big step toward
that if moving away from just living
with the team and being more of a coach
and being more about authority figure
and also on just being more of an adult
and growing up paying your own bills I'm
paying for your own internet paying for
your own gasping for your own rent um
and I think yeah that's one of the
reasons I didn't want to live with the
team and um I had some rules for a
coaching staff that it's kind of like
weird for eSports so you've been in
eSports for a while everyone hangs out
with everyone so something I'm trying to
move away from is really have my like
core friend group um just be my core
friend group and move away from like the
eSport party's eSport hangouts and being
more of a coach it's not that easy I
will admit it's really really difficult
cuz there are so many mutual friends and
there's so many mutual circles within
players and coaches um luckily on this
team I don't have a lot of mutual
friends circles so it's a lot easier but
yeah we've been we're not none of the
coaching staff is living in the house
we'll probably have one like house
manager in the house to make sure
everyone is like well taken care of the
house doesn't burn down like people are
going to sleep on time but yeah so I'm
not living at the house I mean all that
I think is a very interesting kind of
way to broach the final topic I want to
bring up which is I think a lot of
people had a lot of criticism of you
following breaking point and sort of
your coaching situation you went a
challenger for a while but now you're
back in the LCS what would you say to
the fans that doubt your ability to
coach effectively or just you know saw a
breaking point and walked away with a
negative impression of you sure I mean
I'll give you guys some hard facts
so when I was on Team Liquid coaching um
we were a very very bootstrap team we
didn't have investment and we didn't
have the greatest player if we had some
very talented players but they were very
raw and we weren't a team that was
spending a lot to get the best employs
are the best any players we were growing
players so I didn't have a lot of tools
and we still never made playoffs we were
never close to relegation and tl after
the huge amount of investment can't even
get close to playoffs and they're in
relegation twice and with like 1/10 of
the resource we were one game away from
getting promoted when I was in
Challenger and to touch on breaking
point I want to say this so there's what
24 hours in a day let's say like we
sleep for like eight hours of doats and
then like two hours it's like non just
film time so you get filmed for what
like 14 hours and then 14 hours over the
course of a year and then it gets
shortened into what like an how long
with breaking point so hour and a half
of documentary and breaking point isn't
a it's not a piece to inform it doesn't
just want to tell you the most unbiased
point of view story it was to tell a
certain kind of story that tl wanted to
tell and I until wanted to moved our
talk to a different team or to start in
right so they are you're gonna want to
portray him in the best light possible
on for me at that point it was clear
that we were going separate ways and
also another thing is you can't charge a
buyout for a coach but you can charge
that buyout for a player so there's a
lot of factors going into it that one a
portrayed our dog in the best way
possible and portraying me in the worst
way possible personally I thought
breaking point was a very very unfair
point of view and how I was portrayed
and also it's just a while an hour 30
might seem like a long time to condense
an entire year into our 30 and to
condense all the bad moments that happen
if you combine them into an hour 30 it
would look like a pretty bad story for
anyone involved so I mean that's just
what I want to say like the pure facts
they're there with so such little
resource both on my
Timothy L head coach and challenger head
coach I feel like I performed better
than T L and I can't I just cannot
imagine why I'd be getting the blame was
i re responsible sometimes with I
immature sometimes definitely but I'm
just look at the facts in terms of
placing in terms of like the resources
involved I mean it's not - should talk
to anyone that was involved it's not
even - she taught Josh I think josh is a
great player with like very strong
upsides and very strong strong downsize
it's just I felt like I was portrayed
very very unfairly in terms of a
subjective point of view in the results
and also a very dislike on his point of
view from my opinions where so yeah well
here you know I think kind of going off
of that and kind of wrapping up the
interview you have a chance to talk
directly to the fans out there that are
curious about you joining gold Guardians
what you're you're hoping to accomplish
and sort of how you're looking to sort
of portray yourself here is there
anything you would say to them I hear at
the end of the interview honestly I do
want to gather fans and I do want to be
likeable and I'm gonna try my best to do
my own personal content and be best on
camera but what's really important for
me it's how I hold myself and how I view
myself and how my higher-ups view me and
how the players under me and the coaches
under me you me that's just more so way
more important than anything fans might
thing I do you want to appeal to the
fans I do want to be a good face and a
good voice and a good brand but that
wasn't that's not gonna be my primary
focus my primary focus is making sure
golden Guardians does well as possible
in my entire career as a player and as a
coach I've never missed playoffs so
that's gonna be our first big goal I
think a lot of public and even some
people on teams and the casters if you
want you to dive they pinned us to be
the tenth place team I don't feel that
way at all I have the utmost belief in
all the players involved on all the hard
work they're gonna put in and their
mentality and I also trust hi a lot so
when I was coaching TSM like high was
such a thorn on our side
and then after he like he wasn't mid
anymore and then like he's going jungle
and support and disguise like still
putting out results and he was to fly
quest and like he's putting out results
like I just I cannot fathom how the
community like down grace earth and like
down races so much a team is so much
more than a combination of all the
mechanical talents added up there's
personalities that goes into it there's
how the team is run the synergy on how
fast they can get through conflicts how
adaptable to the meta they are like so
much things involved but I think reddit
and the general public views s you add
talent between the fight players and
that's how well the team is gonna do
which is completely not true like so I'm
pretty frustrated at the general point
of view looking into our team but I'm
also very very excited to just put our
nose down and grind and work hard as a
team and put up results very very good
well great answer I'm looking forward to
seeing what you guys can pull off I do
think that your story will be a unique
one next year specifically Gold Gardens
story without imports so I think it's
gonna be really good thank you so much
for the interview
and for everyone else you can check out
the rest my coverage of all things
eSports right here on my youtube channel
subscribe and comment and go to
patreon.com flash what is it Travis
Khafre Travis gaffer and support Travis
it's very important to support content
creators in our space